Hello everyone and welcome to the recommender systems section of the course in case you're further interested
in recommender systems and what we cover in this course.
I suggest you take a look at the following textbook called The recommender systems.
It's really a great textbook on this topic.
I want to get a deeper understanding of recommender systems in general if the rise of Web sites such
as Amazon.com or Netflix or Cobb or recommendation systems is a key aspect to the actual functioning
of the Web site recommender systems have really exploded in popularity.
However a full blown recommendation system is a pretty complex topic and we're only going to cover a
brief aspect of it in this course.
So I suggest you take a look at that textbook in case you want a deeper understanding of the topic in
general as I just mentioned a fully developed and deployed recommendation system is extremely complex
and resource intensive.
We're going to begin to expand beyond our local computer and show you how to use the data Brick's notebook
platform data bricks.
As a company started by the creators of Sparke data Brick's is constantly maintaining and adding new
features to spark as well as hosting a data platform.
That data Brick's platform provides a very convenient way to quickly create a large Spart cluster that
you can interact with in a notebook environment.
It's also ideally set up to work with data frames as it has the capability to upload table like data
from a variety of sources.
In this section of the course we're going to combine learning how to create recommender systems with
learning how to use that data Brick's platform and data Brick's is also one of the leading providers
of official Spark's certification.
So it may be an added benefit to you to really understand their platform in case in the future you want
some sort of official SPARC certification.
Luckily they also have a 3 6 gigabyte tier for their cluster.
So you don't have to pay for it just to get started since full recommender systems require a heavy linear
algebra background.
We're going to try to provide only a high level overview in this lecture.
And as I mentioned previously check out that book much the beginning of the lecture for a deeper look
into this topic.
The two most common types of recommender systems are concepts based in collaborative filtering based
recommenders systems collaborative filtering produces recommendations based on the knowledge of users
attitude towards items.
That is it uses the wisdom of the crowd to recommend the items while content based recommender systems
focus on the attributes of the items themselves.
It gives you recommendations based on the similarity between them.
In general collaborative filtering or C F is more commonly used and content based systems because it
usually gives better results and it's relatively easy to understand from an overall implementation perspective.
The algorithm has the ability to do feature learning on its own.
Which means that it can start to learn for itself what features to use these techniques aim to fill
in the missing entries of a user item Association matrix.
Now we're working on a spark that sparked the M-L it currently supports model based collaborative filtering
in which users of products are described by a small set of latent factors that can be used to predict
Bisi and trees and spark and Bell uses the alternating least squares or a ls algorithm to actually learn
about these latent factors HLS is basically a matrix factorization approach to implement a recommendation
algorithm.
You decompose your large user to either matrix into lower missional user factors and ide of factors
and to fully understand this model you need to have a very strong background in linear algebra.
But you can check out the various resource links I provided for you for more details of HLS how it works
in regards to recommender systems.
For this course we're going to leave further review of HLS mathematics up to the student at those resource
links for this lecture.
For now we're going to move on.
Setting up the data platform and running a recommendation system on it.
Let's get started.
Thanks everyone and I'll see you in the next lecture.